says there's been a breakthrough in the
negotiations between Hamas and Israel
for a ceasefire deal and the release of
Israeli captives our correspondent
Muhammad jamun joins me now in the
studio thank you so much Muhammad for
joining me let's begin with the basics
of what we know this is of course a
breaking news situation but what we've
heard from a senior official in the US
that there's been a breakthrough on
critical matters in the Israel Hamas
talks how significant is this so Jessica
this seems on its face to be rather
significant the fact that there is all
of a sudden this burst of what appears
to be momentum when so many times in the
past we've heard that things might be
close but the tones have been much more
measured when it came to the sort of
level of cautious optimism right now we
seem to be hearing from the US that they
do believe that they could be on the
precipice of a major breakthrough but we
have to warn we have been close to this
point before many times in the last
several months where it seemed as though
perhaps both sides had bridged one of
the main sticking points now right now
what we know is happening is that there
is going to be an Israeli delegation
coming to Q to be discussing the
proposal that they've gotten from Hamas
with the mediators also we're told that
the us is going to be sending a
delegation as well to Qatar to be
involved in these negotiations that all
is very encouraging and what seems to
have spurred all this is the fact that
Hamas gave a new proposal in the past 24
hours to the Israelis that has been
studied what we're seeing
across the Israeli media landscape is it
seems that there are a lot of Israeli
officials that believe that Hamas is
being more flexible than they had been
in the past and so right now people are
encouraged but again we're not at the
point yet where we can say that there is
any big major breakthrough as of yet and
if we talk about what is being said from
the Israeli negotiating team according
according to sources that have spoken
with media the proposal put forward by
Hamas includes a very significant
breakthrough that's according to that
Source what might that break through b
well this is going to be key to find out
what exactly it is because the reports
in Israel are indicating or suggesting
rather that perhaps Hamas has softened
their stance perhaps they have made the
language in their proposable in proposal
more amenable to the Israeli side um
that's going to be interesting to see
what exactly is in the proposal what we
will hear from Hamas going forward
because in the past the main sticking
point has been the language about if
there's going to be a permanent SE CE
fire or not because the Israelis have
maintained that they are not going to
enter into any kind of permanent
ceasefire that they are going to
continue to prosecute the war until
Hamas is completely destroyed whereas
Hamas is said that they will not enter
into any kind of temporary ceasefire
unless that actually leads to a
permanent ceasefire the Americans in the
past couple of months have continued to
say that they have tried to reach a kind
of a language in this proposal that
would satisfy both sides um it's just
going to be interesting to see what
perhaps they have reached at this point
but one of the more difficult things is
going to be is even if this is
acceptable to Israeli negotiators is it
going to be acceptable to the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
often times in the past um felt a lot of
pressure from his far right-wing flank
from uh far right-wing ministers like uh
itar bavier the national security
minister bzel smotri the Finance
Minister who have continued to say that
if Israel were to enter into any kind of
a permanent if I were to end the war
then that would mean that they would
withdraw from government and that would
collapse the Coalition and that would
mean that Israel would be heading to
elections and many people in Israel
believe I've been there many times in
the past year before we were banned from
reporting there many in Israel believe
that Netanyahu is not willing to
completely end the war Because he
believes that that is what his political
survival relies upon going forward right
thank you so much Muhammad for joining
me in the studio I'm sure we'll be
speaking to you about this breaking news
situation
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz